." To see the result run: groff -man -Tascii <file> | less "
."When finished run this"
."gzip picmover.*"
."cp picmover.1.gz /usr/man/man1"
."cp picmover.5.gz /usr/man/man5"
."makewhatis"
."whatis foo"
.TH picmover 1 "2021-07-24" "version 1.2.3"

.SH NAME
picmover - Move images and video from a source to a destination
sorting them using metadata.
.SH SYNOPSIS
picmover [-h] [-v] [-mv] [-n] [-c CONFIG]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B picmover
moves images and videos taken by a camera from the directory it was
called to the source, default is the users home dir. It will separate
the images and videos into two directories, defaults are
.IR Image " and " Video.
From there it will use the metadata to place the media. The metadata
it will use are the manufacture of the camera, camera model, time when
the file was taken. If it cannot find any of the metadata it will use
the defaults:
.IR "Unknown maker" " for manufacture, " "Unknown model" " for camera model and the date when it was called for the date."

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, --help"
Show this help message and exit
.IP -v
More text, i.e. verbose
.IP "-m, --mv"
Moves the target images, not just copying them to the target position.
.IP -n
Dry run, print all actions but doesn't move any files. Good for testing.
.IP "-d, --date-only"
Date only, will just use the date as the destination directory. Will
only prompt for input if it finds a directory with the same date in
the destination dir.
.IP "-i, --ignore"
Will ignore all files where a directory with the same date exist in
the destination directory.
.IP "-c, --config PATH"
Override the user config file and use CONFIG instead.
.IP "-g, --gps [GPS [GPS ..]]"
Use the gps location to name the destination dir. See
https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Nominatim#Example under
addressparts for arguments for GPS.
.IP "--model MODEL"
Specify the model name to use if it cannot be deduced from the metadata.
.IP "--maker MAKER"
Specify the maker name to use if it cannot be deduced from the metadata.
.IP "--match MATCH"
Pick match MATCH when finding matches at destination instead of
prompting user. If MATCH is greater than number of matches it will
pick the last one.
.SH FILES
.IP ~/.picmoverrc
Per user configuration file. See
.B picmover
(5) fpr further details.
.SH BUGS
It has only been tested with a Nikon D7000 and a Nokia 6700. It only
supports nef, jpeg and mov files.
.SH AUTHOR
.RI "Fredrik Salomonsson <" plattfot@gmail.com ">"
.SH SEE ALSO
picmover(5)
